# A comparison of WHO-HEAT model results using a non-linear physical activity dose response function with results from the existing tool.

Authors: Robert Smith<sup>1</sup>, Chloe Thomas<sup>1</sup>, Hazel Squires<sup>1</sup> & Elizabeth Goyder<sup>1</sup>

<sup>1</sup> School of Health and Related Research, University of Shefﬁeld, Regents Court, UK, S1 4DA

Corresponding Author: Robert A Smith (rasmith3@sheffield.ac.uk)

Robert Smith: Conceptualization, Methodology, Visualization, Investigation, Writing- Original draft preparation.
Chloe Thomas: Supervision, Writing- Reviewing and Editing. 
Hazel Squires: Supervision, Writing- Reviewing and Editing. 
Elizabeth Goyder: Supervision, Writing- Reviewing and Editing.

Keywords: Physical Activity, Dose Response Function, HEAT, Walking, Cycling.

Acknowledgements:  The authors would like to thank Martin Stepanek & Marco Hafner for detailed explanations explaining their method to estimate country physical activity distributions. We would also like to thank Sonja Kahlmeier, Thomas Gostski & Alberto Castro Fernandez for providing details of and access to the HEAT model and data.

Funding Sources: Robert Smith is joint funded by the Wellcome Trust Doctoral Training Centre in Public Health Economics and Decision Science [108903/Z/19/Z] and the University of Shefﬁeld

## Repository structure & replication
- the 'scripts' folder contains the scripts necessary to replicate the analysis conducted in the paper. 
  -  The distributions_create.R file creates the country level physical activity distributions as described by Hafner et al. 
  -  The analysis.R undertakes the analysis discussed in the paper.
- the R folder contains all functions required for the analysis.
- the 'output' folder contains the outputs generated by running the analysis.R file.
- the data folder contains data which is read in during the cleaning phase.
- This work was originally undertaken during a trip to Zurich in 2018, when the author was new to R. I apologise sincerely for the structure of the code, ideally I would refactor this code & set up the repository from scratch.

To replicate the analysis run:

``` r
source("scripts/analysis.R")
```
This will run the 'analysis.R' script which:
``` r
1) loads and cleans all necessary data, stored in the 'data' folder, data and merges the data into a single dataframe.
2) reads in the model function used to compare the three scenarios using the HEAT with a linear and a dose-response function.
3) reads in the plotting functions to visualise the results.
4) uses ""R/relativerisksplot.R"" to plot the relative risk functions based upon Woodcock et al. 
5) runs the analysis described in the publication for three different scenarios and stores results as .
6) uses 'R/all_plots.R' to read in all the results from the csvs created above, and plots the results, saving them to the 'outputs' folder.
```
As I mentioned, it would be nice to have time to refactor this code, but unfortunately this project was time limited. If you are interested in building upon this work please contact me directly.

Many thanks,

Rob


